In this video, we'll learn
how to generate code coverage reports with Maven.
Okay, so to get code coverage reports with Maven,
we need to add another plugin.
We need to use that JaCoCo Maven plugin
that we discussed in some previous videos.
So I'll go ahead and set up the group ID, artifact ID
for this given plugin.
So this is org.jacoco.
And for the artifact ID, we choose the jacoco-maven-plugin.
And then we choose a version.
That's the basics for the plugin.
I also need to add some execution items here
for this given plugin.
So I'll set up executions, execution,
give a unique ID for this given execution.
I'll call it jacoco-prepare.
The actual goal name is called prepare-agent.
Now for this little snippet here,
we're preparing a JaCoCo agent.
This will allow JaCoCo to perform some initialization work
in the background when we're starting up our build process.
And this goal is bound by default
to Maven's initialize phase.
So we actually don't have to specify the phase here,
built into the plugin,
it's already bound to Maven's initialize phase.
Okay, great.
So we need to add one more execution item here.
So I'll set up the ID jacoco-report.
For this one, I'll specify the phase of test,
and then the actual goal to reference here
will be the report goal.
For this execution item, we're saying,
during Maven's test phase,
execute the plugin goal jacoco-maven-plugin:report.
So we're binding it to Maven's test phase
and we're executing a goal, report.
And as a checkpoint,
these are the two execution items you should have here
for prepare, and also report.
And then just kind of stepping back,
making sure you have all of your JaCoCo Maven plugin
configs set up accordingly.
All right, so let's go ahead and swing over
to our terminal window here.
Let's do a maven clean test.
And so once we've run this,
then it's actually generating a code coverage reports
using that JaCoCo Maven plugin.
And this report is located at target/site/jacoco/index.html.
And then we simply open up this file in our browser,
and then there you go.
So now we have a code coverage report
that was generated by the JaCoCo Maven plugin.
So here we see our coverage.
We can kind of drill down into this given package.
And then for this given class here, DemoUtils,
we can select this one also,
and this will give us a list of all of our methods
in this class,
along with the code coverage for those items.
And then we can select one of those methods
and we can go through,
and we can see the actual code coverage.
So green means covered, red means not covered.
In this case, we have full coverage of this given class.
Alrighty, so again, the really cool thing
here's that we can generate code coverage reports
from the command line using Maven.
No need for our IDE,
We can do this simply using the Maven command.
Alrighty, good job.